{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0 \fswiss Helvetica;}{\f1 Courier;}}
{\colortbl;\red255\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\widowctrl\hyphauto

{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 MUDDI (Model for Underground Data Definition and Integration) SWG Charter\par}
{\pard \qc \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0  2020-03-05\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 \par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Open Geospatial Consortium}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Submission Date: <2020-2-13>\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Approval Date: <2020\u8594?\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Internal reference number of this OGC\u174? document: 20-007\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Category: OGC\u174? Standards Working Group Charter\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Authors: Josh Lieberman, Carsten R\u246?nsdorf, Alex Ramage\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b MUDDI (Model for Underground Data Definition and Integration) SWG Charter}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Copyright notice}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Copyright \u169? 2020 Open Geospatial Consortium\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To obtain additional rights of use, visit {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.opengeospatial.org/legal/"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
http://www.opengeospatial.org/legal/
}}}
\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 To: OGC members & interested parties\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 A new OGC Standards Working Group is being formed. The OGC members listed below have proposed the OGC MUDDI SWG. The SWG proposal provided in this document meets the requirements of the OGC Technical Committee (TC) Policies and Procedures.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The SWG name, statement of purpose, scope, list of deliverables, audience, and language specified in the proposal will constitute the SWG\u8217's official charter. Technical discussions may occur no sooner than the SWG\u8217's first meeting.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 This SWG will operate under the OGC IPR Policy. The eligibility requirements for becoming a participant in the SWG at the first meeting (see details below) are that:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You must be an employee of an OGC member organization or an individual member of OGC;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The OGC member must have signed the OGC Membership agreement;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You must notify the SWG chair of your intent to participate in the first meeting. Members may do so by logging onto the OGC Portal and navigating to the Observer page and clicking on the link for the SWG they wish to join and;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab You must attend meetings of the SWG. The first meeting of this SWG is at the time and date fixed below. Attendance may be by teleconference.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Of course, participants also may join the SWG at any time. The OGC and the SWG welcomes all interested parties.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Non-OGC members who wish to participate may contact us about joining the OGC. In addition, the public may access some of the resources maintained for each SWG: the SWG public description, the SWG Charter, Change Requests, and public comments, which will be linked from the SWG\u8217's page.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Please feel free to forward this announcement to any other appropriate lists. The OGC is an open standards organization; we encourage your feedback.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Purpose of the Standards Working Group\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The MUDDI Standards Working Group will standardize a conceptual model, a modular framework, one or more logical models, one or more implementation specifications, and mappings to/from other models for geospatial data that represent underground infrastructure assets and characterize the underground environment that contains those assets.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The conceptual model will provide a general basis for interoperability between multiple MUDDI implementations and encodings.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The modular framework will support extensible model capabilities as they are needed to meet specific use cases\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each logical model will be consistent with the conceptual model and provide a more specific level of interoperability between two or more implementation standards and/or encodings.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Each implementation specification will support a specific data language and encoding, such as GML, CityGML, or SF-SQL.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Mappings between MUDDI and other relevant models such as LandInfra or BIM / IFC (Building Information Model / Industry Foundation Classes) will support maximum reuse of data between different domains of application and computing environments\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Business Value Proposition\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Every year the vast majority of seemingly routine street excavations occurring around the world are adversely impacted by lack of usable information about buried utility infrastructure. Large-scale construction projects are frequently stalled, incurring delay claims and change orders that significantly increase costs, because the locations of utility installations were never properly recorded or depicted. Bid costs may be increased by a minimum of 10-30% for contingencies to deal with buried unknowns. Lack of knowledge about underground built environment dependencies and vulnerabilities often stands in the way of effective disaster response and recovery.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These costs and risks could all be mitigated if accurate, comprehensive underground built environment information were available and shared between responsible parties for rapid integration and analysis. An essential first step towards achieving this capability involves developing geo-enabled utility data models with built-in capabilities for enabling data interoperability and integration. Development and adoption of such models would deliver significant benefits by improving data interchange, integration, and application readiness. Models should focus on those attributes most important for specific use cases such as safe digging, construction design, and disaster resilience, with the capacity for extension as needed to accommodate more complex use cases as the business value of data sharing and interoperability is established.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An additional value of developing standardized data models for selected underground utility components and environmental characteristics will be the opportunity to connect with models such as CityGML or BIM / IFC that principally address above-ground features, or GeoSciML / WaterML that cover a broad range of geologic and hydrologic phenomena. This will allow the use of standardized, interoperable data to model the entire interconnected built and natural municipal environment from top to bottom at every scale from small local jurisdictions to regional and national extents.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Scope of Work\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Expand, prioritize, and validate a set of use cases based on the 2017 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.opengeospatial.org/projects/initiatives/undergroundcds"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
OGC Underground Infrastructure Concept Development Study
}}}
 [1] and the 2018 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.opengeospatial.org/projects/initiatives/ugipilot"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
OGC Underground Infrastructure Pilot: MUDDI Workshop
}}}
 [2]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Update and specify a MUDDI conceptual model, based upon and with mappings to existing model standards as laid out in [2]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Develop a roadmap specification that outlines a framework and mechanisms for model modularity, allowing advanced MUDDI profiles to be constructed that preserve the fundamental interoperable concepts and relationships of the model.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 4.\tx360\tab Develop an initial logical and physical implementation specification of the core MUDDI model as a base capability and template for future model development.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 5.\tx360\tab Determine whether the SWG should conclude its work or continue to work on additional logical and physical models and/or harmonizations with other standards.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Statement of relationship of planned work to the current OGC standards baseline\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The MUDDI standard will draw from and relate to OGC Standards relevant to the built environment, such as CityGML and LandInfra. It will also leverage OGC standards modeling the natural environment such as GeoSciML, and WaterML2.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Once the SWG is established, a candidate standard will be developed within one year.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 What is Out of Scope?\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The SWG will only standardize a model for underground data representation, relying on OGC API\u8217's such as [3] to facilitate distributed, fine-grained, secure interchange of such representations between distributed systems and organizations.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As the MUDDI standard will be modular and multi-part, its core and extension structure will allow a customized approach to implementing specific capabilities. If a community needs to develop a MUDDI profile specialized for its own use, that profile should be specified and governed by that community based on the MUDDI framework.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Specific Existing Work Used as Starting Point\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The SWG work will be based on:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab The 2017 OGC Underground Infrastructure Concept Study (CDS) [1] and references therein. This study included:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab A compilation of information on the state of underground infrastructure information and supporting systems. Sponsors included the Ordnance Survey of Great Britain, the Singapore Land Authority (SLA), and the Center for Geospatial Innovation for the Fund for the City of New York.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab An issued RFI (request for information) that sought input from companies, jurisdictions, and nations around the world about current information challenges and how to solve them. Twenty-nine organizations responded to the RFI and delivered extremely valuable information that was summarized in the CDS report.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Organization of a workshop at the offices of the Fund for the City of New York, which brought together selected RFI responders for a two-day conference that explored the challenges and options associated with developing standardized infrastructure information, also summarized in the CDS report.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li720 \fi-360 \endash \tx360\tab Delineation of 6 core use cases for underground information:\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Routine street excavations;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Emergency response;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Utility maintenance programs;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Large scale construction projects;\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Disaster planning and response; and\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li1080 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab Smart cities programs.\sa180\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab MUDDI Model for Underground Data Definition and Integration Engineering Report [2] and references. This engineering report was derived from a workshop held in July 2018 to further develop requirements for an underground information model specification. The report presents the outcomes of this workshop, experiments conducted with preliminary versions of the MUDDI model, and a draft of the conceptual MUDDI model itself, also available on {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/opengeospatial/muddi/tree/master/Model"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
Github
}}}
 in Enterprise Architect UML form.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Is This a Persistent SWG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [x] YES\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [ ] NO\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 When can the SWG be Inactivated\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 As there are several model specifications to be standardized, persistent SWG status is proposed, but when all the initial deliverables are finished, inactivation will be considered.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Description of deliverables\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 These are the categories of specification deliverables. The specific titles and how they are apportioned to particular documents for publication will be determined in the course of prioritization by the SWG members.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The MUDDI conceptual model will describe the scope, critical concepts and main relationships that define the model.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab The MUDDI roadmap specification will describe how extensions, interfaces, and specializations to MUDDI should be developed and provide an initial listing of expected modules.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab At least one logical model specification will be developed that is consistent with the conceptual model and provides the basis for possibly automated generation of one or more implementation specifications.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab At least one implementation specification will be developed to support a specific data language and encoding, such as GML, CityGML, SF-SQL, or GeoJSON.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 \bullet \tx360\tab (Optional) Mapping and/or extension specifications that describe how to carry out partial or complete data transformations between MUDDI and other relevant models that are proposed or in use for underground data such as BIM/IFC, IMKL, CityGML UN ADE (Utility Network Application Domain Extension), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://pro.arcgis.com/en/pro-app/help/data/utility-network/structure-of-a-utility-network.htm"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
ESRI Utility Network
}}}
, etc.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Initial Deliverables\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab MUDDI Conceptual Model Specification\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab MUDDI Roadmap and Extensibility Framework\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab MUDDI Logical and Implementation Model Specification for GML and SF-SQL\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Additional SWG Tasks\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 1.\tx360\tab Elaboration and update of underground built environment data use cases.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 2.\tx360\tab Identification of interface features that connect underground and above-ground environments for utilities and other built infrastructure.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li360 \fi-360 3.\tx360\tab Liaison through the IDBE Subcommittee for mapping and harmonization between relevant built environment standards published by other organizations.\sa180\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 IPR Policy for this SWG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [x] RAND-Royalty Free\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [ ] RAND for fee\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Anticipated Audience / Participants\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The audience for this activity includes underground data experts but also any of the diverse stakeholders involved in the critical use cases for such data.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Domain Working Group Endorsement\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The 3DIM DWG [discussed and endorsed the establishment of this SWG and presented to the OGC Technical Committee in Plenary in {\i {\i } in ___} 2020].\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 Other informative information about the work of this SWG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Collaboration\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Liaison is expected with the OGC CityGML SWG, InfraGML SWG, GeoSciML SWG, and other SWGs and DWGs, to ensure consistency of approach to data model standardization.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Liaison is also planned with the American Society of Civil Engineers for coordination with regard to ASCE 38-02, "As-Built" specifications. The contact for this coordination is Phil Meis\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Other collaborators are expected to include, beside the 3DIM DWG: the IDBE Subcommittee, the LandInfra DWG, Utilities and Energy DWG, Smart City DWG, PipelineML SWG, etc within OGC, as well as BuildingSmart International (BIM/IFC) outside of OGC.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Similar or Applicable Standards Work (OGC and Elsewhere)\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Flanders has developed, implemented, and mandated the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://overheid.vlaanderen.be/help/klip"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
KLIP system
}}}
 for underground infrastructure based on the {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://overheid.vlaanderen.be/help/klipimkl-formaat/imkl-23"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
IMKL model
}}}
 which is in turn based on INSPIRE standards.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The UK Geospatial Commission has led a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.gov.uk/government/news/map-of-underground-pipes-and-cables-designed-to-save-lives-and-prevent-major-disruption"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
National Underground Assets Registry
}}}
 project using an underground asset data model based on the initial MUDDI conceptual model [2]\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Singapore has been developing an underground land administration model [4] based in part on the CityGML Utility Network ADE.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Details of first meeting\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An Ad Hoc Working Group meeting will be convened during the Technical Meeting in March 2020 to discuss and hopefully approve this charter.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 An initial teleconference will be organized after Charter adoption, and the first face-to-face meeting will be at the OGC TC Montreal meeting in June 2020.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Projected on-going meeting schedule\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 There will be face-to-face meetings organized at each OGC Technical Committee meeting. GoToMeeting teleconferences will be arranged, probably fortnightly, between TC meetings, and the documents will be developed in an OGC public GitHub repository. Email notifications of the issues being discussed will be made available for those unable to access the GitHub.\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Supporters of this Charter\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 The following people support this proposal and are committed to the Charter and projected meeting schedule. These members are known as SWG Founding or Charter members. The charter members agree to the SoW and IPR terms as defined in this charter. The charter members have voting rights beginning the day the SWG is officially formed. Charter Members are shown on the public SWG page. Extend the table as necessary.\par}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Name}\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 {\b Organization}\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Carsten R\u246?nsdorf\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 UK Ordnance Survey\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Alex Ramage\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Scottish Government / Transport Scotland\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Geoff Zeiss\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Between The Poles / OGC Board of Directors\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Jan Hjelmager\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Danish Agency for Data Supply & Efficiency (SDFE)\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 H.C. Gruler\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Leica Geosystems\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Rob van Son\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 ETH Zurich\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{
\trowd \trgaph120
\cellx4320\cellx8640
\trkeep\intbl
{
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Tatjana Kutzner\par}
\cell}
{{\pard\intbl \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 TU Munich\par}
\cell}
}
\intbl\row}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs32 Conveners\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 Carsten R\u246?nsdorf: Chair, 3DIM Domain WG\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 \b \fs36 References\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [1] J. Lieberman and A. ed\u8217's Ryan, \u8220"OGC Underground Infrastructure Concept Study Engineering Report,\u8221" 2017. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://docs.opengeospatial.org/per/17-048.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
http://docs.opengeospatial.org/per/17-048.html
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [2] J. Lieberman ed., "MUDDI Model for Underground Data Definition and Integration Engineering Report," 2019. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://docs.opengeospatial.org/per/17-090r1.html"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
http://docs.opengeospatial.org/per/17-090r1.html
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [3] OGC API - Features - Part 1: Core {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/ogcapi-features"}}{\fldrslt{\ul
https://www.opengeospatial.org/standards/ogcapi-features
}}}
\par}
{\pard \ql \f0 \sa180 \li0 \fi0 [4] Yan, Jingya & Jaw, Siow Wei & Soon, Kean & Wieser, Andreas & Schrotter, Gerhard. (2019). Towards an Underground Utilities 3D Data Model for Land Administration. Remote Sensing. 11. 1957. 10.3390/rs11171957.\par}
}
